25-06-2026

1st hr
history of AI
	Allen tury
	etc...

speech recognition : HMM (Hidden Markov Models)
planning:
decision theory
ultimate theory
vast improvements in robotics
computer vision
ML
ai systems
Deep Learning

recent Ai
heavy use of :
	probability theory, decision theory, statistics, logic (fuzzy, modal-necessity, possibility, temporal-time)

2nd hr
AI vs Conventional Computing
Human vs Artificial Intelligence
comparison of supercomputer and the human brain
categories of AI System - system think like human, system think rationally

26-06-2026
1hr
-More formal definition of AI : AI is a branch of computer science which is concerned with the study and creation of computer systems exhibit intelligence.
-Characteristics of ai systems : 
*learn new concepts and tasks
*reason and draw useful conclusions about the world around us
*remember complicated interrelated facts and draw conclusions from them (inference)
*understand a natural language or perceive and comprehend a visual scene
*look through cameras and see what is there (vision), to move themselves and objects around in the real world (robotics).
*plan sequence of actions to complete goal.
*offer advice based on rules and situations


		       parent disciplines of AI

	philosophy	Maths	    psychology	   computer Science
	   |		  |	        |		   |
			        AI
	
	game 		theorem	    language &		Robotics
	playing		proving	  image understand    	&Navigation

Tech-Subareas of AI
*Knowledge representation
*common sense reasoning dealing with uncertainty & decision making
*Learning models
What is Intelligence??
--the ability to learn or understand or to deal with new or trying situations : reason also : the skilled use of reason

pioneers of AI
*John McCarthy - Non monotic reasoning
*Marvin misky - 
*Arthur Samuel - ai for game playing
*Allen newell(CMU) - 
etc. .. .  .

-Turing test

29-06-2026 - absent:
Agent, Rationality, Autonomy, task env
properties of task env:
1. fully or partially observable
2. single agent vs multi agent
3. deterministic vs stochastic
4. Episodic vs sequential
5. discrete vs sequential
6. known vs unknown


30-062026
1hr:
kinds of agents:
1. Simple reflex agents - this work only after correct decision on the basis of current percept.
2. Model-based reflex agents - ex- How the world works requires a model of the world and is there before a model-based agent.
3. Goal-based agent - 
4. utility-based agents - it has to model and keep track of it's env, which are tasks which involve perception, representation, reasoning and learning.

task carried by components of learning agent:
learning element:
performance element
critic: tells learning agent how well the agent is doing using performance standard.
problem generator: Suggests actions which lead to new and informative experiences.

2hr:
Types of AI:
- By capability
- By Functionality
- By Approach
- By learning (ML)

AI By capability:
Artificial Narrow Intelligence (ANI) - AI designed to perform one specific task exceptionally well.
Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) - AI capable of any intellectual task that a human perform (Under research).
Artificial Super Intelligence (ASI) - AI that exceeds human intelligence in all domains (Hypothetical(Theory)).

AI By Functionality:
-Reactive Machines
-Limited Memory
-Theory of mind
-Self-Aware AI

AI By Approach:
- Symbolic AI - Rule based AI, knowledge based, Expert Systems - works using facts, rules, logic, knowledge base, inference engineer - applications medical diagnosis, banking rules, tax systems, legal systems
- Hybrid AI - it is approach that combines two or more ai techniques to build system that acts more accurate , reliable etc. (Hybrid AI = rule based ai + learning based AI)

AI Classification By learning (ML):
- Supervised - labeled
- Unsupervised - Unlabeled
- Semi-Supervised - small labeled + large labeled
- Self-supervised - Data creates labels
- Reinforcement - Reward and penalty

02-07-2026
1hr
ML-basics: EDA, 
EDA:
1-Problem definition
2-Data collection
3-Exploratary Data Analysis (EDA)
4-Data Preprocessing/cleaning
5-Feature Selection & Engineer
6-Split the dataset
7-Model Selection
8-Model Training
9-Model evaluation
10-Hyperparameter Tuning
11-Model/validation

